“The complete sequence of the mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) of the true slime mold Physarum polycephalum has been determined. The mtDNA is a circular 62,862-bp molecule with an A+T content of 74.1%. A search with the program BLAST X identified the protein-coding regions. The mitochondrial genome of P. polycephalum was predicted to contain genes coding for 12 known proteins [for three cytochrome c oxidase subunits, apocytochrome b, two F1Fo-ATPase subunits, five NADH dehydrogenase (nad) subunits, and one ribosomal protein], two rRNA genes, and five tRNA genes. However, the predicted ORFs are not all in the same frame,because mitochondrial RNA in P. polycephalum undergoes RNA editing to produce functional RNAs. The nucleotide sequence of an nad7 cDNA showed that 51 nucleotides were inserted at 46 sites in the mRNA. No guide RNA-like sequences were observed in the mtDNA of P. polycephalum. Comparison with reported Physarum mtDNA sequences suggested that sites of RNA editing vary among strains. In the Physarum mtDNA, 20 ORFs of over 300 nucleotides were found and ORFs 14–19 are transcribed.”, writes H. Takano, T. Abe, R. Sakurai, Y. Moriyama, Y. Miyazawa, H. Nozaki, S. Kawano, N. Sasaki and T. Kuroiwa in the article “The complete DNA sequence of the mitochondrial genome of Physarum polycephalum” (2001).

Crawlers is a slime mold inspired digital artwork by Finnish visual artist Heini Heikkilä made with JavaScript p5.js code, Artificial intelligence and images of different yellow and purple slime molds, octopus, purple cauliflower, human brain, deep ocean coral and video material of modeling dark matter and the structure of universe with the help of slime mold formation structure logics. In this artwork, instead of formig a collague, the imagery and data has turned to a growth, that reassembles the movements and intelligence of crawling slime mold in search of nutrition. Instead of making sense, having purpose or consuming, these digital Crawlers seem to grow in an unexpected and random manner and create a surrealistic, variable form, nevertheless they are based on a pure and simply mathematical code. 
Slime mold formation and digital artwork have both code behind them, and so does human brain, which makes the questions of intelligence and consciousness interesting.
